The Virgin Historian and the Chad Monarch

Bernd suffers with a job. Punching the clock and sitting at a desk for eight hours for someone else is no way to live. His natural state is a leisurely NEETdom where he is free to study his own particular obsessions. I used to think that pre-modern scholars had it pretty good. You could spend all your time reading and writing, without the hassle and pressure of a modern day job. But the life of Jacob Paul von Gundling shows how bad life could be for an 18th century Bernd. Von Gundling was a German historian and scholar. After studying law and history, he was appointed Professor of History and Law at the Berlin Knights’ Academy, and made chief historian at the Herald’s Office by King Frederick I of Prussia.

King Frederick was an educated, cultured man who maintained a lavish court and saw himself as a patron of the arts and of scholarship. During Frederick’s reign, von Gundling was respected as a scholar, and would often give public lectures or readings for the king and his guests over dinner.  But in 1713, Frederick died and was succeeded by his son, Frederick William I.  Known as the Soldier-King, Frederick William shared none of his father’s interest in arts and culture.  Immediately upon his accession, he cut budgets, fired servants, ceased patronizing the arts, and generally redirected all funding to the Prussian army. 

In England, Isaac Newton and the Royal Society were creating the scientific revolution, and in France, the philosophs were having refined and witty conversations in their salons. Meanwhile in Prussia, in the land of Dichter und Denker, the new king’s idea of entertainment was called the Tobacco Cabinet, an “all-male society, whose members were mostly military men who gathered in sparsely-furnished rooms to smoke, hold discussions and drink to excess.”  Scholars would be invited to lecture on a topic, and the members would ‘discuss’ it.  And by discuss, I mean get into drunken brawls.  Before, von Gundling was accustomed to life as a respected lecturer, speaking to groups of interested, urbane and cultured guests of the king.  Now he was summoned to address the 18th century equivalent of frat boys, and the bullying was merciless.

He gave a lecture discussing the arguments for and against the existence of ghosts, during which he was made to drink heavily.  Some guards helped him stumble back to his room, where someone was hiding, dressed in a bed sheet to scare the shit out of him. Hilarious.

He would frequently return home to find his doorway bricked up, or have lit firecrackers thrown into his study. A pair of guards dropped him into the frozen moat on a cold winter night. One time, the king left two actual bears in his bedroom. They tried to feed him laxatives just before his wedding night. He tried to escape Berlin and flee to his brother in Halle, but was arrested and brought back.  The Soldier-King considered this tantamount to desertion.

The stress brought on by this abuse drove him to alcoholism.  And yet somehow, he managed to keep writing serious scholarly works. He lived until 1731, so he had to deal with King Chad and his douchebag friends bullying him for nearly two decades. When he did die, they propped up his dead body on a barrel and paraded it through the streets of Potsdam. His eulogy was given by a rival scholar, David Fassman, who was one of von Gundling’s more vicious tormentors. The local clergy refused to take part in the farce.

But despite all of this, von Gundling kept writing his scholarly works, writing extensive histories of Brandenburg and Pomerania. He worked to establish the Prussian school system. He never quit or gave up. Life is suffering, and even death is no respite. But don’t let that keep you from satisfying your particular brand of autism.