Hello, DreamBernd here. My last issue was a bit simple and not as fully fleshed as this one, so my apollogies go to the readers who might have thought about it as low effort by my part.
The reason you can see such old dates written on my dreams is because these are actually from my own personal "dream archive", or dream diary, as most say. I have a good ammount of dreams, but I think that my dream-generation rate and KohlZine's release rate might be too fast to keep up in the future, which could lead to a hiatus some point in time. 'Tis the reason why I encourage all Bernds who read the KohlZine to share their dreams with the world through what might, in the future, be it's own section of the zine: "The Dream Zone".


2nd of March - 2018

It seems I am playing a game that looks and feels like Dark Souls. My field of view takes up the whole screen, as if I was inside the actual game, so I could "see myself" from a 3rd person perspective. My character, or avatar as some would say, was dressed as a king, with one of those red and golden crowns with the little cross on top and a red cape that's white and fluffy on the end, and armed with a single short sword.

For some unknown reason, I just knew I was in a fairly easy part of this "game". I entered through a door, and I could see that I was inside a catholic Romanesque church. The door I entered through was just behind the altar, and I could see on my front a few knights clad in what looked like late medieval armor, and armed with rather menacing longswords, sitting on the pews. There was no bishop, priest or religious person of any kind doing mass. One of the knights decided to attack me, so he rose from the pew and readied himself. He lunged at me, and I blocked his swing. I went for a counter-attack, and as I hit the knight, my whole field of view is covered by an intense white light, and all I could hear was a loud high pitched buzz. I thought that a nuclear bomb just went off, which would be surreal in such a medieval setting.

I woke up feeling what seemed like both surprise and legitimate fear in my chest.

3rd of March - 2018

I'm outside, and, nearby, there's a really annoying wasp. Tired of this disgusting pest, I decide to kill it. As I do that, another wasp flies by, and, as I assume to be as an act of revenge for it's fallen comrade, it violently enters my left ear. I could feel it in a very detailed and realistic way, both in the sound and touch of a bug moving and crawling inside my ear. 
By the sheer feeling of surprise, I woke up.